---
name: Sonya Sepahban
company: General Dynamics
role: Senior Vice President of Engineering, Development and Technology (retired)
---

Sonya Sepahban has demonstrated a unique ability to combine deep expertise in technology and innovation with strong financial acumen, operational experience, and leadership skills to consistently deliver extraordinary results in the US and around the world. She is an engineer with proven track record of successful intrapreneurship in large and complex organizations. As an early seed investor and a Board member, she has combined her passion for technology and business innovation with her experience as an executive with significant P&L responsibility to drive high growth performance.

In late 2015, Sonya retired from General Dynamics Land Systems (GDLS) as the Senior Vice President of Engineering, Development and Technology, where she was responsible for all new product development and upgrades to GDLS products worldwide. Sonya's leadership helped transform the GDLS brand to be recognized as more innovative and hi-tech, while concurrently improving performance and expanding margins. She has been credited with spearheading the most successful innovation center built to date in the Defense sector, with thousands of members globally, contributing to the latest advances in tactical and combat vehicles.

Sonya also served as Sector Vice President and Chief Engineer at Northrop Grumman Space Technology (NGST), where she provided broad oversight of programs, product development, and continuous improvement. Her previous roles there included Vice President of Systems Engineering and Chief Technology Officer.

Sonya served at NASA Johnson Space Center in the 1990's, assuming positions of increasing responsibility on the Space Shuttle and International Space Station (ISS) programs. She led an international team developing a rescue pod for the ISS, which included the joint US-Russian efforts to modify the Soyuz spacecraft to meet NASA requirements for crew transport. Before joining NASA, Sonya's early career spanned international aerospace companies, including Lockheed Martin and Sligos (a Dassault Aviation subcontractor).

Sonya holds a BS in Chemical Engineering from Cornell University, a Political Science degree from the Institute of Political Sciences in Paris (France), an MS in Chemical Engineering from Rice University, and an MBA from the University of Houston. She is the recipient of several awards including the Robert J. Collier Award (2009), the Women in Defense Innovation Award (2011), the Technologist of the Year Award (2012), and was inducted into the CCG Hall of Fame in 2015.

Sonya is an experienced Board member, and a Governance Fellow of the National Association of Corporate Directors (NACD). She currently serves on the Board of Genomenon Inc., a high growth bio-informatics company, as well as on the Investment Committee of the largest Angel Fund in Michigan (MAF). Sonya serves on the Boards of Cranbrook Institute of Science, where she is the Vice-Chair of the Board and Chair of the Strategic Planning Committee, and the Inforum Center for Leadership (ICL), where she sponsors STEM initiatives. She has also served on Boards of the Boys and Girls Club of America, and the California Academy of Math and Sciences. She is often sought out for her proven leadership skills and technical expertise. Recent appointments include the National Academy of Sciences (NAS) Committee chartered to make recommendations to the Secretary and Chief of the Air Force on Developmental Program Planning, and the subsequent Roundtable to be convened in 2016. She has held leadership positions in professional societies throughout her career, authored numerous papers, contributed to books, and lectured on diverse technical and leadership topics at the university and national levels. Sonya is a private pilot and enjoys traveling.
